The theme selected for my comments this month is punctuality, a godly quality.
You might remember the opening paragraph and a 1990 watchtower article on the subject
of punctuality.
It said that an elder's closest friends jokingly called him Armageddon.
Why?
They replied, we know he's coming, but only God knows when.
The elder had a problem with punctuality.
Punctuality has nothing in common with procrastination.
To procrastinate means to intentionally put off the doing of something that should be
done.
The saying, tomorrow is the busiest day of the year reflects the human tendency to procrastinate.
How appropriate then is the inspired encouragement concerning the present today.
Galatian 610 says, as long as we have the opportunity, let us work what is good toward all.
As long as we have the opportunity does not sound like procrastination to me.
Know the Bible encourages just the opposite, punctuality.
Punctuality refers to the characteristic of being prompt in keeping appointments.
Punctuality is a godly quality.
In fact, Matthew 633 prioritizes our pursuit of kingdom interest.
It says, keep on then seeking first the kingdom and his righteousness, and all these other
things will be added to you.
It said to seek the kingdom first, not second, not third or fourth, first.
When we put the kingdom first in our life, we do not put it off in favor of some trivial
pursuit.
If it is time for a Christian meeting, we are there.
Well before it starts, perhaps you have heard some say, at least I made it to the meeting.
Better late than never.
But the godly way is better than ever late.
Jehovah is a punctual god.
He sets the example for us.
When Jehovah decided to destroy the ungodly world in a deluge, he said to Noah, Genesis
chapter 6 verse 14, make for yourself an art.
Then at Genesis 7-4, Jehovah told Noah to enter into the ark and informed him for in
just seven days.
I will make it rain on the earth for forty days and forty nights.
What happened?
A better late than ever?
Attitude?
No.
That is not acceptable to Jehovah.
Instead Genesis chapter 7 verse 10 says, and seven days later, the flood waters came up
on the earth.
Right on time, punctuality is a godly quality.
By means of a prophecy in Daniel chapter 9, Jehovah indicated hundreds of years in
advance when Jesus would fulfill his role as Messiah and Savior.
When did Jesus present himself for that role?
Better late than ever?
No.
Precisely on time.
In 29 CE, Jesus was anointed as Christ.
In fact, Romans chapter 5 verse 6 says, Christ died for ungodly men at the appointed time.
Jehovah is punctual.
What about in our time?
The Bible tells us to keep in expectation of Jehovah's future day of judgment.
When will it happen?
Well, to us it may seem that it has delayed, but what do we know about Jehovah?
He is punctual, and so it is that Habakkuk chapter 2 verse 3 tells us, for the vision is yet
for its appointed time, and it is rushing toward its end, and it will not lie.
Even if it should delay, keep in expectation of it, for it will without fail come true.
It will not be late.
This is Jehovah's way.
Unlike the elders cited earlier, this Armageddon will be on time.
The Apostle Paul in 1 Corinthians chapter 14 was specifically discussing what happens
at Christian gatherings.
In verse 26 he said, when you come together, let all things take place for building up.
In 1 Corinthians chapter 14, verse 40, he concludes by saying, but let all things take
place decently and by arrangement.
Look at the words again.
When speaking about Christian meetings, he said, let things take place decently.
In Greek it literally means, well, behaviorly.
Paul also used a Greek word translated here by arrangement.
The literal meaning of the Greek word is according to order.
If we are to be well behaved according to order, at our meeting, what would be one aspect
of that, being punctual, on time for the start of the meeting.
While the lack of punctuality affects all cultures to one degree or another, it is true
that some cultures are more punctual than others as a whole.
A missionary reported that in one town where he served, his wife would be the only person
in the audience when he announced the opening song at the beginning of the meeting.
But when he announced the closing song, 70 people would be there.
On the other hand, in a Western European country, about 1,000 people were asked, if you were
invited to dinner at 7 pm, should you arrive 5 or 10 minutes early, or 5 or 10 minutes late,
or exactly on time?
The majority responded that courtesy requires scrupulous respect for the host and arriving
at the exact minute.
Each culture would likely think that the other is extreme.
However, being punctual is more than a matter of regional preference.
It is a godly quality that true Christians of every culture want to cultivate.
Punctuality must become a habit, a way of life.
It is similar to some countries that do not have a habit of good hygiene or cleanliness.
It may be true, but it is expected that Jehovah's people in those lands will excel in good
hygiene and clean habits.
In the same way, no matter what our background, culture, or upbringing, it is expected that
we, as imitators of our God, will develop the godly habit of being punctual.
What helps us to be punctual?
The Bible encourages advanced planning.
Proverbs 21 5 says, the plans of the diligent, surely lead to success, but all who are hasty
surely head for poverty.
So being punctual is not just a matter of hastily fulfilling an obligation or an appointment.
It involves thinking in advance about our responsibilities.
Yes, planning to be prepared for them and to be prompt in carrying them out.
Well, what are some activities that we would want to be punctual in fulfilling?
It can be the everyday things in life, such as arriving at work or at school on time,
being punctual for appointments such as a visit to the doctor or dentist, arriving at
the designated time when invited to another's home for a meal.
What is our habit like when it comes to these areas of life?
Even more important is punctuality when attending our Christian meetings and assemblies.
This means being present before the opening song in prayer.
The Apostle Paul quoted from Psalm 22 when he wrote Hebrews 2-12 of Jesus.
He said, I will declare your name to my brothers in the midst of the congregation.
I will praise you with song.
If that was true of Jesus, it is a great incentive for us to participate in singing the first
song with our congregation.
The opening prayer is important for us.
In ancient times, Jehovah called the temple his house a prayer.
It is true that the opening prayer requests Jehovah's guidance and Holy Spirit on the
program.
However, it also prepares our minds and hearts to receive the information to be considered.
Of course, there may be times when one is unavoidably late in arriving at a meeting.
Public transportation may be delayed or our car may break down.
That's understandable on occasion.
But what is our habit?
In the past, it was suggested that we consider arriving 15 or 20 minutes before a meeting
started.
One brother with six siblings said his father made a goal of being at the Kingdom Hall
20 minutes before the program began.
That certainly took advance planning.
His father's byline for meeting attendance was if you're five minutes early, then you're
15 minutes late.
In most cases, the whole family arrived 20 minutes before the meeting for wholesome association.
Another opportunity for punctuality is arriving on time for a meeting for service.
This is challenging for some.
However, with a little advance planning, we can be successful.
It is particularly important since the actual meeting is only about 10 minutes long.
If we're late, not only is it disruptive, but it could force the one taking the lead
to redo the arrangements made for the group.
And speaking of our ministry, what is an opportunity to be punctual every month?
Yes, you guessed it, turning in our field service report at the end of the month.
Do you have a way of reminding yourself of this?
In some lands, it is almost as if it is a custom for the start of a wedding talk to be delayed.
Often this is because of mistakenly gauging how much time the bride needs to get dressed
and made up for her grand appearance.
However, being considered of those invited should move those involved to allow extra time
to complete the task of preparation.
A 1990 watchtower commented on being punctual and starting a wedding.
The very next sentence stated,
You may like to have your egg boiled for just so many minutes.
I am not sure exactly how that applies to a wedding, but I think we get to point, don't we?
We should have calculated the timing in advance so that the ceremony begins on time.
Do we have yet another example of being punctual, not procrastinating?
How about when there is a difference between you and a fellow believer or a family member?
Of course, if it is simply a minor issue because of imperfection,
often the best thing to do is forgive and forget.
But if it was more serious or we cannot simply let it go, what should we do?
We need to settle the matter and restore the peace.
When should we take this step?
Do not procrastinate if we do the problem may fester and get worse.
What kind of a priority did Jesus establish for restoring peace between fellow believers?
At Matthew 523-24, note his clear indication of punctuality.
If then you are bringing your gift to the altar and there you remember that your brother has something against you,
leave your gift there in front of the altar and go away first, make your peace with your brother
and then come back and offer your gift.
Did you pick up on the timing that Jesus recommended for reconciliation?
He said, first, first, make your peace with your brother.
It is a high priority and should be treated as such.
But remember the scripture we shared earlier, Proverbs 21-5.
This principle should be implemented.
They last part of the verse warns us not to be hasty.
hasty is not synonymous with punctuality.
Instead, the first part of the verse indicates we should prepare or plan the visit first.
Then follow through without procrastinating.
It said this approach will lead to success.
What is the success we are seeking?
Jesus did not say to justify our position or to point out the flaw in the other person's words or actions.
No, he said you would be successful if you make your peace with your brother.
Punctuality is a godly quality that we should strive to cultivate.
Another aspect of punctuality is ending an assignment on time.
In the interest of punctuality, let's move on to the next segment of our program.